.TH ss5 1 "20 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
.HP 9
ss5 \- A daemon that implements the SOCKS v4 and v5 protocol to execute proxy requests for a client
.SH SYNOPSIS
ss5 \fI[options]\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
ss5 is a socks server that implements the SOCKS v4 and v5 protocol. As a proxy server, ss5 authenticates, profiles  and processes network requests for clients. It establishes connections to application hosts for client applications. When the client attempts to access the network, the client connects to the ss5 daemon instead of the application host. 
.PP
Following authentication, clients request that ss5 perform network activities for the client. The activities might include:
.RS 3
.PP
 CONNECT

 BIND
 
 UDP ASSOCIATE 
.RE
.PP
The ss5 protocol is independent of application protocols, and can assist with different networking services, including telnet, ftp, finger, whois, gopher, and WWW access.
.PP
.RE
The ss5 daemon supports one authentication method:
.RS 3 
.HP 21
Username/Password -  Refer to ss5.passwd(5) or ss5.pam(5) for additional information.
.HP 13
.PP
The ss5 daemon supports two profiling methods:
.RS 3 
.HP 21
File -  Refer to ss5.conf(5) for additional information.

Ldap -  Refer to ss5.conf(5) for additional information.
.HP 13
.RE
.PP
ss5 can run:
.RS 3
.PP
standalone -  the default
.TP
prefork processes -  include the -n option (not supported in threaded mode)
.HP 14
threaded   -  if your operating system supports POSIX threads. Include the -t option to run ss5 in threaded mode.
.SH OPTIONS
Separate multiple options with white space.
.TP
-b [\fIhost:port\fP]| 
\fIhost:port\fP specifies the host and the port number on that host on which ss5 runs, instead of the default port. When you omit \fIhost\fP, ss5 uses 0.0.0.0 as the \fIhost\fP value.
.TP
.TP
.TP
-n  \fIval\fP
Run multiple instances of ss5. -n option control the number of instances.
.TP
.TP
-t 
Run ss5 in threaded mode, if your operating system supports POSIX threads.
.TP
-u  \fIval\fP
Run ss5 with the specified user name.
.TP
-v 
Print a message containing the current ss5 version.
.TP
-s 
Use syslog instead of ss5.log log file.
.TP
-c 
Run syntax check for config file
.TP
-m 
Disable logging
.SH VARIABLES
To set the variables in the configuration file, use the syntax:
.RE
.PP
.RS 5
set \fIvariable [value]\fP
.RE
.TP
SS5_DNSORDER 
order domain name answers for implementing failover.
.TP
SS5_STIMEOUT \fIval\fP
\fIval\fP specifies the idle time in seconds, before closing a connection (0 for infinite).
.TP
SS5_VERBOSE 
enable verbose output to logfile.
.TP
SS5_CONSOLE
enable web console.
.TP
SS5_SRV
enable server manager command line tool.
.TP
SS5_DEBUG
enable debug output to logfile.
.TP
SS5_SYSLOG_FACILITY
set syslog facility
.TP
SS5_SYSLOG_LEVEL
set syslog level
.TP
SS5_PAM_AUTH
enable PAM authentication
.TP
SS5_AUTHCACHEAGE
enable user authentication caching and set cache age
.TP
SS5_AUTHOCACHEAGE
enable user authorization caching and set cache age
.TP
SS5_LDAP_TIMEOUT
set timeout for ldap query for profiling
.TP
SS5_LDAP_BASE
set BASE method for profiling (see PROFILING section in configuration file)
.TP
SS5_LDAP_FILTER
set FILTER method for profiling (see PROFILING section in configuration file)
.TP
set SS5_RADIUS_AUTH
enable RADIUS authentication
.TP
SS5_RADIUS_INTERIM_INT 
set interval beetwen interim update packet
.TP
SS5_RADIUS_INTERIM_TIMEOUT
set interim response timeout
.TP
SS5_STICKY_SESSION
set session feature for balanced connections. SS5 mantain affinity session between
source client and destination server
.TP
SS5_STICKYAGE 
set expiration time for session affinity (in seconds)
.TP
SS5_NETBIOS_DOMAIN
enable netbios domain mapping with directory store, during authorization process
.TP
SS5_PROCESSLIFE
set number of requests ss5 process can serv before closing (only preforked mode)
.TP
SS5_SUPAKEY
set SUPA secret key (default SS5_SERVER_S_KEY). See http://csocks.altervista.org
.TP
SS5_ICACHESERVER
set internet address of ICP server
.TP
SS5_GSS_PRINC
set gss service principal
.RS 5
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
SS5_SOCKS_USER
sets the effective user ID of the ss5 process
.TP
SS5_SOCKS_PORT
sets listen port
.TP
SS5_SOCKS_ADDR
sets listen address
.TP
SS5_CONFIG_FILE
sets absolute pathname of ss5 config file
.TP
SS5_PASSWORD_FILE
sets absolute pathname of ss5 password file
.TP
SS5_PROPAGATE_KEY
sets key value for configuration replica
.TP
SS5_ROLE_SLAVE
sets role to slave to accept replica from master (default value is ALONE)
.TP
SS5_LOG_FILE
sets absolute pathname of ss5 log file
.TP
SS5_PROFILE_PATH
sets absolute path of ss5 profile files
.TP
SS5_LIB_PATH
sets absolute path of ss5 modules
.PP
.SH REQUEST FOR COMMENTS
.TP
RFC1928
SOCKS protocol Version 5
.TP
RFC1929
Username/Password Authentication for SOCKS V5
.TP
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
ss5(1), ss5.conf(5), ss5.pam(5), ss5.passwd(5), ss5.ha(5), ss5srv(1), ss5_supa(5), ss5_gssapi(5)
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
    Matteo Ricchetti
.TP
.br
Send comments to matteo.ricchetti@libero.it
