.TH ss5.conf 5 "20 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
ss5.conf \- Configuration file for the ss5 daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
The ss5 daemon usually reads the configuration file in /etc/ss5/ss5.conf. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ss5 daemon reads the configuration file when it starts and each time it receives an HUP signal.
.PP
The configuration file contains six sections:

.RS 5
- variables and flags
.br
- authentication
.br
- authorization
.br
- bandwidth
.br
- proxy
.br
- balancing
.br
- dumping
.br
- miscellaneous
.RE
.PP
In each section, the ss5 daemon sequentially reads each line until it encounters a matching line for that section. The order of sections and the order of lines within a section are crucial to achieving the desired result. Every entry in a line must match.

.SH VARIABLE AND FLAGS ENTRIES
Variables and flags in the configuration file control the amount and types of logging and information messages. The configuration file syntax for initializing variables is:
.RS 5
.TP
set \fIvariable\fP \fIvalue\fP
.RE
.PP
.TP 15
set
Identifies entries that initialize ss5 variables for internal use.
.P
Refer to the ss5(1) VARIABLES section for complete details about ss5 variables and values.
.PP
.SH AUTHENTICATION ENTRIES
Authentication entries identify the types of authentication the ss5 daemon can use. Authentication lines use the syntax:
.PP
.RS 5
auth \fIsource-host source-port auth-methods\fP
.RE
.TP 15
.B auth
Identifies the entry as an authentication entry
.TP
.B \fIsource-host\fP
Could be host address or network address
.TP
\fIsource-port\fP
Must be a valid port or range
.TP 
.B \fIauth-methods\fP
Could be u (Basic autentication), n (Fake authentication), s (SUPA authentication), k (GSS Kerberos) or - (No authentication). With n flag, ss5 requests authentication but doesn't check for password. Use fake authentication for logging or profiling purpose. About SUPA see ss5_supa man page.
.PP
External authentication program could be used, using the syntax:
.PP
.RS 5
external_auth_program \fIprogram name\fP
.RE
.TP 15
.B external_auth_program
Force ss5 to use external authetication program instead of reading password file. Authentication program return OK on success or ERR if an error occurred.
.TP
.B \fIprogram name\fP
Must be the full path name of the program to use for user authentication.
.TP
The ss5 daemon authenticates clients that originate on \fIsource-port\fP at \fIsource-host\fP using \fIauth-methods\fP. It can use password file or external program to validate requests.
.PP
.PP
.B Radius authentication
could be used, setting SS5_RADIUS_AUTH option and configuring the following attributes:
.RS 5
.PP
.RE
.TP 15
.B \fIradius_ip\fP
radius server address
.B \fIradius_bck_ip\fP
radius server secondary address
.PP
.B \fIradius_auth_port\fP
radius authentication service port
.PP
.B \fIradius_acct_port\fP
radius authorization service port
.PP
.B \fIradius_secret\fP
radius client/server secret password
.PP
.PP
.SH AUTHORIZATION ENTRIES
The access control section determines when the server permits or denies a request to establish a connection. The ss5 daemon denies a request if an access control line does not match the request, even after it has authenticated the host. 
.PP
There are one type of line, permit line, with this syntax:
.RS 5
.PP
permit/deny \fImethod src-host src-port dest-host dest-port fixup group bandwidth expdate\fP
.RE
.PP
.TP 15
.B \fImethod\fP
could be - (authentication or not), k (GSS Kerberos), s (SUPA) or u (BASIC authentication required) 
.TP
.B \fIsrc-host\fP
could be host address or network address
.TP
.B \fIsrc-port\fP
Must be a valid port or range
.TP
.B \fIdest-host\fP
Could be host address, network address or host name
.TP
.B \fIdest-port\fP
Must be a valid port or range\fP
.TP
.B \fIfixup\fP
Could be http, ssl,  smtp, pop3, imap, icache  or - (None)
.TP
.B \fIgroup\fP
Could be filename in the /etc/ss5 directory containing usernames, a DN into a directory server or - (None). Not available for UDP requests.
.TP
.B \fIbandwidth\fP
Could be a valid bandwidth range (from 256 bytes per second to 2147483647) or - (None).
.TP
.B \fIexpdate\fP
Could be a valid expiration date in the format DD-MM-YYYY
.TP
The entire line matches only when all the entries match.
.PP
.PP
.SH BANDWIDTH ENTRIES
Bandwidth entries define limits per user about number of connections and bandwidth value. Authentication lines use the syntax:
.PP
.RS 5
bandwidth \fIgroup maxcons bandwidth\fP
.RE
.TP 15
.B bandwidth
Limit bandwidth and number of connections per user
.TP
.B \fIgroup\fP
Could be filename in the /etc/ss5 directory containing one or more usernames. Nb: if you modify a groupfile you must reload ss5 configuration.
.TP
\fImaxcons\fP
Could be the number of max connections permitted to user. Valid range is 0 (no limit) to 65000.
.TP 
.B \fIbandwidth\fP
Could be a valid bandwidth range (from 256 bytes per second to 2147483647) or - (None) per user.
.PP
.PP
.SH PROXY ENTRIES
Proxy entries describe the addresses clients can only reach through other SOCKS servers. With noproxy, ss5 makes direct connection.
.RS 5
.PP
proxy/noproxy \fIdest-host dest-port proxy-host proxy-port ver\fP
.RE
.PP
.TP 15
.B \fIdest-host\fP
Could be host address or network address
.TP
.B \fIdest-port\fP
Must be a valid port or range
.TP
.B \fIproxy-host\fP
Must be host address
.TP
.B \fIproxy-port\fP
Must be a valid port
.PP
.TP
.B \fIver\fP
Must be 4 or 5. SS5 will use 4 or 5 socks ver using upstream.
.PP
.SH BALANCING ENTRIES
Define an association between vid and real servers to balance:
.RS 5
.PP
virtual \fIvid real\fP
.RE
.PP
.TP 15
.B \fIvid\fP
define virtual identification and must be equal for the real ones that belongs to the same virtual identification
.TP
.B \fIreal\fP
must be a valid internet address
.PP
.SH DUMP ENTRIES
Dump entries describe the addresses and ports for which dumping traffic into a file.
.RS 5
.PP
dump \fIdest-host dest-port dump-mode\fP
.RE
.PP
.TP 15
.B \fIdest-host\fP
Could be host address or network address
.TP
.B \fIdest-port\fP
Must be a valid port or range
.TP
.B \fIdump-mode\fP
r=rx (traffic received from client), t=tx (traffic sent from client) and b=rx+tx (both directions)
.PP
.SH MISCELLANEOUS ENTRIES
The profiling section determines when the server have to use ldap query or mysql query to perform user profiling, instead of looking into group file. 
.PP
There are five type of line for directory configuration:
.RS 5
.PP
.RE
.TP 15
.B \fIldap_profile_ip\fP
must be directory internet address
.TP
.B \fIldap_profile_port\fP
must be directory port
.TP
.B \fIldap_profile_base\fP
must be a valid "base" as starting point for the search into directory. ss5 uses ou='group'+base where 'group' is set in permit line in the ss5.conf file.
.TP
.B \fIldap_profile_filter\fP
must be a valid "filter attribute" for ldap query, for example "uid"
.TP
.B \fIldap_profile_attribute\fP
must be a valid "attribute" for ldap query. SS5 uses it with filter for search operation where SS5_LDAP_FILTER option is specified.
.TP
.B \fIldap_profile_dn\fP
must be a valid "distinguished name" to bind to directory
.TP
.B \fIldap_profile_pass\fP
must be a valid "password" for simple authentication
.TP
.B \fIldap_netbios_domain\fP
must be a valid netbios domain name. If SS5_NETBIOS_DOMAIN option is set, ss5 map netbios domain user in authentication request with his configured directory sever. Otherwise no match is done and directory are contacted in order of configuration
.PP
There are four type of line for mysql configuration:
.RS 5
.PP
.RE
.TP 15
.B \fImysql_profile_ip\fP
must be mysql server internet address
.TP 
.B \fImysql_profile_db\fP
must be mysql database 
.TP 
.B \fImysql_profile_user\fP
must be mysql the username to access to mysql
.TP 
.B \fImysql_profile_pass\fP
must be the password to access to mysql
.TP 
.B \fImysql_profile_sqlstring\fP
must be the sql base string for query. DEFAULT 'SELECT uname FROM grp WHERE gname like'
.TP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS 5
auth 111.111.111.0/24 - u
.br
permit - - 111.111.111.0/22 - - - -
.RE
.PP
Basic authenticated users from the class C network 111.111.111.0 can use the server.
.PP
.RS 5
proxy - - 172.16.0.1 1081 -
.br
permit - - www.mydomain.com - - http - 
.RE
.PP
All socks requests through 172.16.0.1 port 1081. Only requests with destination www.mydomain.com, protocol http
are pertmitted. 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
ss5(1), ss5.conf(5), ss5.pam(5), ss5.passwd(5), ss5.ha(5), ss5srv(1), ss5_supa(5), ss5_gssapi(5)
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.RS 3
Matteo Ricchetti
.RE
.PP
Send comments to matteo.ricchetti@libero.it

